---
layout: note
title: "A09: Recipe classification"
due: "Nov 30, 11:59pm"
categories: [assignments]
---

# A09: Recipe classification

This assignment helps you practice classification of textual documents. We will be using data from the [What's Cooking?](https://www.kaggle.com/c/whats-cooking) Kaggle competition.

## Task

Predict the kind of cuisine based on the ingredients. Find the best data transformations and classification technique, and report your procedure and accuracy.

## Data

Create a free Kaggle account and download the [train.json](https://www.kaggle.com/c/whats-cooking/data) file. Use the Python script below to transform this file into CSV format. You may wish to modify this script to cleanup the recipe ingredients (remove bogus characters, etc.).

```python
import sys
import re
import json
import io
reload(sys)
sys.setdefaultencoding('utf-8')
from pprint import pprint

with io.open(sys.argv[1], encoding='utf8') as jsonin:
    jrecipes = json.load(jsonin)
    print "ingredients,cuisine"
    for recipe in jrecipes:
        print '\"%s\",%s' % (' '.join(map(lambda x: re.sub(r'\s', '_', x),
                             recipe['ingredients'])), recipe['cuisine'])
```

Run the script as follows, assuming the script is saved as `json2csv.py`:

```
python json2csv.py train.json > train.csv
```

or if on delenn:

```
PYTHONIOENCODING=utf8 python2 json2csv.py train.json > train.csv
```

## delenn for training

Feel free to use delenn to train. Refer to the [Weka](/notes/weka-classification.html) notes for details.

## Deliverables

Submit each of the following:

- Any code you write to transform the data.
- Documentation of the Weka operations you performed, in the order performed.
- A report of the accuracy of the ZeroR and OneR classifiers with 10-fold cross validation (include pct correct, prec/recall/f-measure, confusion matrix).
- A report of the accuracy of your best classifier with 10-fold cross validation (include pct correct, prec/recall/f-measure, confusion matrix).

## Grading rubric

Grading of this assignment will be somewhat subjective. I’ll be looking for evidence of poor methodology.

To earn full credit, data must be processed correctly and the classifiers must be evaluated correctly. The best classifier must have a weighted average F-measure > 0.710 on 10-fold cross-validation with the training set. The methodology must be sophisticated, correct, and well-documented.